Historically, the philosopher has had a specific relationship with death, since he has to die in everyday banality to be able to detect the flaw or fracture in which thought is likely to be inscribed. When it turns out that what the philosopher in question thinks is above all life, we can assume that life and death will maintain an unusual relationship in work and in experience. And it is in fact with astonishing gaiety that Deleuze, at the beginning of his "alphabet book", by evoking the "clause" of the program, speaks of his own death. To Claire Parnet, perky, with one of her laughs held back in the too loud cavern of the thorax, which inevitably makes one think of this formula of Kafka quoted by him: "My head meets my lungs behind my back", he said therefore: "To speak about things on which I did not reflect at first, it is inconceivable. What saves me a bit is the clause: all this will not be used until after my death. So, you understand, I already feel reduced to the state of a pure Pierre-André Boutang archive, of a sheet of paper, and almost to the state of pure spirit. I speak after I die, and we have turned the tables enough to know that a pure mind is not someone who gives very intelligent answers, it is always a little sketchy. So everything is fine with me, we start, A, B, C, D, whatever you want >>. The reason for this gaiety? If real death is little in the end compared to the many times when the work will have `` crossed the Acheron '' (? Phie, p.190), where the philosopher will have appeared haggard `` with his air of returning from land of the dead >> (p.67), it is perhaps that from this Hades he brought back life, a more intense life, << more beautiful qualities, more brilliant colors, more precious stones, extensions more vibrant >> (DR, p 314), in short, a life capable of conquering empirical death.

The first page of What is Philosophy? evoked great suspended dead (Monet, Titien, Turner, Kant Chateaubriand), who in their advanced old age, had found the resource to re-roll the dice, to reinvent the work, and therefore also life. Deleuze will draw from this, later in the book, a distinction between two ways of aging: aging according to History, and becoming-old-at the end of "becoming" we must grant all the liberating significance that it takes on in Deleuzian thought: << Sometimes we get old according to History, and with it, sometimes we get old in a very discreet event (perhaps the same event that allows us to pose the problem 'what is the philosophy?). And it’s the same with those who die young, there are many ways to die like this ”(p. 106) - namely to die young according to history or to become-a-young-dead.
