# Session One
## Pg 13-23﻿


### Preface

This work is Marx's attempt at exploring themes in Hegel's philosophy where,  `"the interconnection between political economy and the state, law, ethics, civil life, etc., is touched on in the present work only to the extent to which political economy itself ex professo touches on these subjects." (Pg.14).` The sections following this that are crossed out for deletion (the lines in the square brackets) is where he seems to be drawing out a separation between himself and 'Critical Theologians', which from my perspective seems to be Right Hegelians. For this work, Marx makes use of French, English, and German socialist writers. Of the German writers, Marx praises Freurbach, Hess and Engles, with special attention to  Freurbach, who he believes to be the starting point of a positive, naturalistic and humanistic criticism (Pg. 15).

Hegel stands as a real revolution in theory and Marx believes Hegel has yet to be fully explored, and its contemporaries (Critical Theologians) have foundational errors. These Critical Theologians  take credit for these theoretical developments, while only understanding them in the abstract. In the much more nuanced sense too, while Freurbach tends to stick to the spiritual categories Hegel uses such as "Self-consciousness" and "Mind", the Critical Theologian does not understand these higher, absolute categories. To be more direct, `"On close inspection theological criticism - genuinely progressive though it was at the inception of the movement - is seen in the final analysis to be nothing but the culmination and consequence of the old philosophical, and especially the Hegelian, transcendentalism, twisted into a theological caricature. (Pg. 17)`

In summary,  this work is meant to be an exploration of Political Economy where Hegel's thought can develop. The point is to see it through what Marx thinks this development in Philosophy can assist in Political Economy.

### Wages of Labor
Marx in the introduction to this section draws upon Adam Smith in a strong polemic declaration. `"Wages are determined through the antagonistic struggle between capitalist and worker. Victory necessarily goes to the capitalist. The capitalist can live longer without the worker than the worker without the capitalist. Combination among the capitalists is customary and effective; workers' combination is prohibited and painful in its consequences for them." (Pg.19)`. Unlike capitalists, if a section of industrial economy changes, the worker is not able to have enough capital to deal with or benefit from this change. There is nothing to supplement this loss. A good example would be the $600 stimulus for the Pandemic Economic depression, where wealth distribution financially benefited industries who were able to profit off of distribution, manufacturing, or investments (Amazon and Tesla in specific come to mind). The inability for the working class to re-invest in industries, properties, rent and so forth, is indicative of this essential and determinate separation, something which Marx views as fatal for the worker (Pg. 20).

Marx here talks of Adam Smiths concept of ordinary wage, which is characterized by a cattle like existence in which one can only support themselves and enough for a family. It is enough to keep the lineage of workers alive and propagating. This passage really stands out for me `"The demand for men necessarily governs the production of men, as of every other commodity (Pg. 20)."` If the supply outpaces demand, a section shall become impoverished, begging or starving.

In this direct sense, the worker is a commodity. The change in the labor pool causes shifts from the 'Market Price' to 'Natural Price'. This increase in the labor pool drops wages, and the impact where labor is divided, the worker suffers the most. Because of this relationship to the capitalist, the worker is the first to confront this. In the case as described by Marx before, a capitalist redirects industry in other ways, the worker faces direct layoffs and is the first to deal with this.

Marx claims that `"[i]n most cases, for every wage that rises, one remains stationary and one falls. The worker need not necessarily gain when the capitalist does,  but he necessarily loses when the latter loses (Pg. 21)."` Marx points to prices of labor and provisions, saying they are often inverse, where a lack of labor demand is met by price provisions rise and so forth, referencing Smiths "Wealth of Nations" vol1 p77. Marx once again iterates that it's the worker in almost all conditions which suffers the most.

Marx references Smith ("Wealth of Nations" p230 & 61-65)in order to make this point clear. Smith claims there are three conditions society could find itself and Marx wants to make it explicit where the worker finds themselves. Considering the cutoff I will only cover the two and a half. This section is where Marx is drawing out that all of the conditions, including the favorable
 - 1) `'If the wealth of society declines, the worker suffers the most of all, for: although the working class cannot gain so much as can the class of property-owners in a prosperous state of society, "no one suffers so cruelly from its decline as the working class"'(Pg 21-22).`
 - - Smith, p 230

- 2) The option most favorable to the working class is one in which wealth increases in society. Raising wages leads to a small labor pool overworking, a loss of freedom, and a shortening of their lifespan. A society only meets this condition of capital and revenue growth. Its possibilities rest on these contingencies.
- - A) The accumulation of Capital and Capital as Accumulated Labor. The products of the workers labor are not his and neither are the means of his existence, they belong to the capitalists.
- - B)`"The accumulation of capital increases the division of labor, and the division of labor increases the number of workers (Pg.22)"` The division of labor reduces peoples activity, to a machine like quality. `"Just as he is thus depressed spiritually and physically to the condition of a machine and from being a man becomes an abstract activity and a stomach, so he also becomes ever more dependent on every fluctuation in market-price, on the application of capitals, and on the mood of the rich (Pg.23)."` Workers become dependent on work, and the surplus of labor intensifies competition and drives down their price.
- - C) In a prosperous society, only the very wealthy can live off their financial interest, for each other position competition increases. The competition between capital increases, and larger capitalists crush smaller ones, causing a small group to go back to the working class. As those markets shrink, the some sections of the working class fall into poverty and the middle class falls into the working class.
- "Hence, even in the condition of society most favorable to the worker, the inevitable result for the worker is overwork and premature death, decline to a mere machine, a bond servant of capital,... more competition, and for a section of the workers starvation or beggary... The raising of wages presupposes and entails the accumulation of capital, and thus sets the product of labor against the worker as something ever more alien to him. Similarly the division of labor... bringing with it the competition not only of men but of machines. Since the worker has sunk to the level of machine, he can be confronted by the machine as a competitor (Pg 23-24)." And as industry increases, so does its products which inevitably leads to overproduction which leads to laying off workers or reducing their wages.
